A corporation is a legal entity, a person. Cannot vote, the shareholders own it but it is legally distinct. The shareholders have limited liability which means they cannot be held responsible for the entity's debts.

It can take on debt, sue or be sued, borrow or lend money, merge or takeover another company.
Can be closely held, or if it wants to raise capital it can issue more share and be a public corporation.

So corporations pay tax on their profits, and shareholders are taxed again when they receive dividends from the company or sell their shares at a profit. By contrast, income generated by businesses that are not incorporated is taxed just once as personal income

### Other Type of ventures
**sole proprietorships:** Small “mom-and-pop” businesses are usually organized as sole proprietorships.

**partnership**: and enter into a partnership agreement that sets out how decisions are to be made and how profits are to be split up. Partners, like sole proprietors, face unlimited liability. If the business runs into difficulties, each partner can be held responsible for all the business’s debts
Partnerships, unlike corporations, do not have to pay income taxes. The partners simply pay personal income taxes on their shares of the profits.

**limited partnership**: partners are classified as general or limited. General partners manage the business and have unlimited personal liability for its debts. Limited partners are liable only for the money they invest and do not participate in management.

Many states allow **limited liability partnerships (LLPs)** or, equivalently, **limited liability companies (LLCs)**. These are partnerships in which all partners have limited liability

professional corporation (PC) or professional limited liability company (PLCC), which is commonly used by doctors, lawyers, and accountants. In this case, the business has limited liability, but the professionals can still be sued personally—for example, for malpractice.